os: Updating host OS variants (#1327)
balena-io/docs: shared/overview/2.x.md

{{ $names.os.upper }} is an operating system built for easy portability to multiple device types (via the [Yocto framework][yocto] and optimized for Linux containers, and Docker in particular. There are many decisions, large and small, we have made to enable that vision, which are present throughout our architecture.

The first version of {{ $names.os.lower }} was developed as part of the {{ $names.company.lower }} platform, and has run on thousands of embedded devices on {{ $names.company.lower }}, deployed in many different contexts for several years. {{ $names.os.lower }} v2 represents the combination of the learnings we extracted over those years, as well as our determination to make {{ $names.os.lower }} a first-class open source project, able to run as an independent operating system, for any context where embedded devices and containers intersect.

We look forward to working with the community to grow and mature {{ $names.os.lower }} into an operating system with even broader device support, a broader operating envelope, and as always, taking advantage of the most modern developments in security and reliability.

## Variants of {{ $names.os.lower }}

> Each version of {{ $names.os.lower }} is available in development and production variants, both built from the same source, but with slightly differing features enabled or disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each version of {{ $names.os.lower }} is available in development and production variants, both built from the same source, but with slightly differing feature sets.
```

| Version Name | Variant Type | Description |
|:----------------:|:------------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|

> | 2.46.1+rev3-prod | production | This is the production version of the {{ $names.company.lower }} managed OS. This is the OS you should use for any production fleet deployments |

Reviewer 2: This PR removes the "unmanaged version" from this table. Does that mean the "managed OS" here is / isn't relevant? :man_shrugging:

Author: 👍 Thanks for this, I left this table unchanged (save for deleting that row) so I've now cleaned up the terminology here for consistency.

> | 2.46.1+rev3-dev | development | This version the development version of the above and should be used when you are developing a new application and want to use the fast [local mode][local-mode] workflow. This variant should never be used in production. |

Reviewer 2: "This version the development version" ?? :wink:

> | 2.46.1+rev3-dev | development | This version the development version of the above and should be used when you are developing a new application and want to use the fast [local mode][local-mode] workflow. This variant should never be used in production. |

Reviewer: GH syntax highlighting has failed here, did you confirm this link expands in the table as expected?

Author: Yup, it does. This table formatting isn't the greatest.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/135382/72849552-cb605500-3c5b-11ea-8a27-d6c73d92c449.png)

Reviewer: nice, thanks for checking that!

### Development vs. Production images

__Warning:__ Development images have an exposed Docker socket and enable passwordless root SSH access and should never be used in production.

The development images are recommended while getting started with {{ $names.os.lower }} and building an application. The development images enable a number of useful features while developing, namely:

* Passwordless [SSH access][ssh-host] into {{ $names.os.lower }} on port `22222` as the root user.
* Docker socket exposed on port `2375`, which allows `{{ $names.company.lower }} push` / `build` / `deploy`, that enables remote Docker builds on the target device (see [Deploy to your Fleet][deploy-to-fleet]).
* Getty console attached to tty1 and serial.
* Capable of entering [local mode][local-mode] for rapid development of application containers locally.

__Note:__ Raspberry Pi devices don’t have Getty attached to serial.

> Production images disable root passwordless access, and an SSH key must be [added][config-json-ssh] to `config.json` to access a production image using a direct SSH connection. You may still access a production image by tunneling SSH through the {{ $names.company.lower }} VPN via the CLI (using `balena ssh <uuid>`) or the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} [web terminal][ssh-host]. To use SSH via the VPN, you need to have an SSH key configured on your development machine and [added][ssh-key-add] to the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Production images disable passwordless root access, and an SSH key must be [added][config-json-ssh] to `config.json` to access a production image using a direct SSH connection. You may still access a production image by tunneling SSH through the {{ $names.company.lower }} VPN via the CLI (using `balena ssh <uuid>`) or the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} [web terminal][ssh-host]. To use SSH via the VPN, you need to have an SSH key configured on your development machine and [added][ssh-key-add] to the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} dashboard.
```

Author: Took me about 5 mins to spot that change 😆

Reviewer: heh, sorry :) i never understand why GH fails miserably sometimes with these simple diffs.

To persist logs on the device, enable persistent logging via the [fleet configuration variable][fleet-configuration] in the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} dashboard, or prior to device provisioning setting the `"persistentLogging": true` [key][config-json-logging] in `config.json`. The logs can be accessed via the host OS at `/var/log/journal`. For versions of {{ $names.os.lower }} < 2.45.0, persistent logs are limited to 8 MB and stored in the state partition of the device. {{ $names.os.upper }} versions >= 2.45.0 store a maximum of 32 MB of persistent logs in the data partition of the device.

Both development and production versions of {{ $names.os.lower }} allow the setting of a custom [hostname][config-json-hostname] via `config.json`, by setting `"hostname": "my-new-hostname"`. Your device will then broadcast (via Avahi) on the network as `my-new-hostname.local`. If you don't set a custom hostname, the device will default to `<short-UUID>.local`. You can also set a custom hostname via the [Supervisor API][supervisor-api] on device.

> On production images, nothing is written to tty1, on boot up you should only see the {{ $names.company.lower }} logo on the HDMI screen, and this will persist until your application code takes over the framebuffer. If you would like to replace the {{ $names.company.lower }} logo with your own custom splash logo, then you will need to replace splash/resin-logo.png file that you will find in the [first partition][parition] of the image (boot partition or `resin-boot`) with your own logo.

Reviewer 2: "replace splash/resin-logo.png file" -> "replace the splash/resin-logo.png file" ?

__Note:__ As it currently stands, plymouth expects the image to be named `resin-logo.png`.

When a {{ $names.os.lower }} image is downloaded from the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} dashboard, it contains a provisioning key that allows devices flashed with the image to be added to a specific application, and a device API key generated. As such, you should handle such images downloaded from {{ $names.cloud.lower }} with care as anyone with access to the image can add a device to your application. You can find out more about the access restrictions of a device API key [here][security].

### Standalone {{ $names.os.lower }}

> Images downloaded via the CLI (using `os download`), via [balena.io/os][balena-io-os], or [manually built via Yocto][yocto-build] are the same {{ $names.os.lower }} images as those downloaded from {{ $names.cloud.lower }} but are unconfigured, and will not connect to the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} servers, but still makes use of the Supervisor to keep the containers running. This version of {{ $names.os.lower }} is meant as an excellent way to get started with Docker containers on embedded systems, and you can read more about this at [balena.io/os][balena-io-os].

Reviewer 2: "still makes use of" -> "still make use of" ?

Both development and production versions of {{ $names.os.lower }} allow the setting of a custom [hostname][config-json-hostname] via `config.json`, by setting `"hostname": "my-new-hostname"`. Your device will then broadcast (via Avahi) on the network as `my-new-hostname.local`. If you don't set a custom hostname, the device will default to `<short-UUID>.local`. You can also set a custom hostname via the [Supervisor API][supervisor-api] on device.

> On production images, nothing is written to tty1, on boot up you should only see the {{ $names.company.lower }} logo on the HDMI screen, and this will persist until your application code takes over the framebuffer. If you would like to replace the {{ $names.company.lower }} logo with your own custom splash logo, then you will need to replace the `splash/resin-logo.png` file that you will find in the [first partition][parition] of the image (boot partition or `resin-boot`) with your own logo.

Reviewer 2: Is "the HDMI screen" overly specific, given the wide range of devices supported by Balena? :man_shrugging:

Below is a representative example from the Raspberry Pi family, which helps explain [meta-{{ $names.company.lower }}-raspberrypi/conf/samples/bblayers.conf.sample]({{ $links.githubOS }}/balena-raspberrypi/blob/master/layers/meta-balena-raspberrypi/conf/samples/bblayers.conf.sample).

> | Layer Name                                  | Repository                                                                    | Description                                                                           |

Author: Looks like my editor formatted this table. I know this is hugely out of date but please don't review this section (unless you have a strong opinion on markdown table formatting)  as I'll do a separate Yocto PR.

| meta-openembedded/meta-networking           | https://github.com/openembedded/meta-openembedded/tree/master/meta-networking | Central point for networking-relatedpackages and configuration.                       |
| oe-meta-go                                  | https://github.com/mem/oe-meta-go                                             | OpenEmbedded layer for the Go programming language                                    |
| poky/meta-yocto                             | https://git.yoctoproject.org/cgit/cgit.cgi/meta-yocto/                        |                                                                                       |
| poky/meta                                   | https://git.yoctoproject.org/cgit/cgit.cgi/poky/                              | Core functionality and configuration of Yocto Project                                 |

[resin]:{{ $links.mainSiteUrl }}/
[linux]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux
[Docker]:https://www.docker.com/
[containerisation]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_system%E2%80%93level_virtualization
[Dockerfile]:http://docs.docker.com/reference/builder/

> [yocto]: https://www.yoctoproject.org/

Reviewer: maybe worth sorting these since it's getting kind of long
